BinaryFormatter Migration Guide (#41564)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/serialization/binaryformatter-migration-guide/migrate-to-system-text-json.md

---
title: "BinaryFormatter migration guide: Migrate to System.Text.Json (JSON)"
description: "Migrate from BinaryFormatter to System.Text.Json for JSON serialization."
ms.date: 5/31/2024
no-loc: [BinaryFormatter, Serialization, System.Text.Json]
dev_langs:
  - CSharp
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "BinaryFormatter"
  - "System.Text.Json"
  - "serializing objects"
  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
---

# Migrate to System.Text.Json (JSON)

[System.Text.Json](../system-text-json/overview.md) defaults to emphasizing literal, deterministic behavior and avoids any guessing or interpretation on the caller's behalf. The library is intentionally designed this way for security and performance. From the migration perspective, it's crucial to know the following facts:

> - By default, **fields are not serialized or deserialized**, but they can be [annotated for serialization](../system-text-json/fields.md), or `JsonSerializerOptions.IncludeFields` can be cautiously set to `true` to include all fields.

Reviewer: The content of this page seems to immediately give guidance that seems to contradict general best practices for System.Text.Json. I believe the spirit of these notes about fields and private members is meant to help folks serialize their types without having to make many changes to them, but I'm not sure that context is spelled out clearly enough.

Perhaps instead of an "it's crucial to know..." approach, we could first suggest that the API shapes be changed to avoid serializing fields and private members, clarifying when the `[JsonInclude]`,  and `JsonSerializerOptions.IncludeFields` features should be used (with caution).

We will want to make sure @eiriktsarpalis signs off on the content of this page, with it balancing a promotion of STJ best practices and the realistic scenario of folks needing the lightest touch migration from BinaryFormatter.

Author: My goal for this paragraph was to explain how it works, so users are not surprised that a new serializer is skipping fields which are not exposed by the properties.

IMO we could keep this part, but add step by step part and describe the recommended approach.

Reviewer 2: I find the emphasis appropriate given that the docs are directed to BF users. They are bound to stumble on issues related to member visibility and polymorphism so it's important that they understand the STJ restrictions (and potential workarounds) from the start.

> - By default, **fields are not serialized or deserialized**, but they can be [annotated for serialization](../system-text-json/fields.md), or `JsonSerializerOptions.IncludeFields` can be cautiously set to `true` to include all fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- By default, **fields are not serialized or deserialized**, but they can be [annotated for serialization](../system-text-json/fields.md), or `JsonSerializerOptions.IncludeFields` can be cautiously set to `true` to include all public fields.
```

  ```csharp
  JsonSerializerOptions options = new()
  {
      IncludeFields = true
  };
  ```

- By default, System.Text.Json **ignores private fields and properties**. You can enable use of a non-public accessor on a property by using the `[JsonInclude]` attribute. Including private fields requires some [non-trivial extra work](../system-text-json/custom-contracts.md#example-serialize-private-fields).

- System.Text.Json **[cannot deserialize read-only fields](/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonserializeroptions.ignorereadonlyfields?view#remarks)** or properties, but the `[JsonConstructor]` attribute can be used to indicate that the specified constructor should be used to create instances of the type on deserialization. The constructor can set the read-only fields and properties.

> - It [supports serialization and deserialization of most built-in collections](../system-text-json/supported-collection-types.md). The exceptions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It [supports serialization and deserialization of most built-in collections](../system-text-json/supported-collection-types.md), with a few notable exceptions.
```

  - multi-dimensional arrays,
  - `BitArray`,

>   - `LinkedList<T>`,

Reviewer 2: I just checked and `LinkedList<T>` seems to be working fine.

Reviewer 3: Do `System.Collections.Immutable` work? If not, we should probably list those.

  - `Dictionary<TKey, TValue>`, where `TKey` is not a primitive type,
  - `BlockingCollection<T>` and `ConcurrentBag<T>`,

>   - most of the collections from [System.Collections.Specialized](../system-text-json/supported-collection-types.md#systemcollectionsspecialized-namespace) and [System.Collections.ObjectModel](../system-text-json/supported-collection-types.md#systemcollectionsobjectmodel-namespace) namespaces.

Reviewer 2: This is far from an exhaustive list, user-defined collections types that have no default constructor and are not mutable (i.e. by implementing `ICollection<T>`) are also not supported. We also do not support some of the built-in collection interfaces (`IReadOnlySet<T>` jumps to mind).

Given that this list is changing every year, I would recommend deferring to STJ documentation (I believe it has a section noting supported types) which should be kept up to date as the library evolves.

- Under [certain conditions](../system-text-json/supported-collection-types.md#custom-collections-with-deserialization-support), it supports serialization and deserialization of custom generic collections.

- Other types [without built-in support](../system-text-json/migrate-from-newtonsoft.md#types-without-built-in-support) are: `DataSet`, `DataTable`, `DBNull`, `TimeZoneInfo`, `Type`, `ValueTuple`. However, you can write a custom converter to support these types.

> - It [supports polymorphic type hierarchy serialization and deserialization](../system-text-json/polymorphism.md) where the types have been explicitly opted in via the `[JsonDerivedType]` attribute or custom converter.

Reviewer 2: It might be worth emphasizing that unlike BF, polymorphism doesn't work with open hierarchies (i.e. the base type must be annotated with the exhaustive list of supported derived types). Also, round-tripping is only possible as long as a type discriminator id has been specified for the derived type in question.

- The `[JsonIgnore]` attribute on a property causes the property to be omitted from the JSON during serialization.

- To preserve references and handle circular references in System.Text.Json, set `JsonSerializerOptions.ReferenceHandler` to `ReferenceHandler.Preserve`.

> - To override the default behavior, you can [write custom converters](../system-text-json/converters-how-to.md).

Reviewer 2: You might also want to add a bullet linking to the [contract customization docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/serialization/system-text-json/custom-contracts) since the API can be used to unblock a number of scenarios possible under BF.
